---
layout: post
title: "Encrypting container images with containerd imgcrypt!"
---

I just released a blog post on Encrypted Container Images on containerd. You can read it [here](https://medium.com/p/3c07f8e8e8d4/)!


## Preview

Just recently, we upstreamed the encrypted container images officially as a non-core containerd project! In this blogpost, we will introduce what exactly container image encryption does, and how you can play around with it!

### What are Encrypted Container Images?

Like Virtual Machine (VM) images, containers images contain code and data which are used by the applications we deploy. More often than not, our code may contain sensitive data - be it propreitary algorithms or machine learning models. The motivation behind encrypted container images is to provide a way for developers and operators to encrypt sensitive code.

The two common usecases for encryption are:

Ensure confidentiality of data - i.e. encrypted data at rest for compliance, or storing sensitive code on public registries like Docker hub or quay.io.
Provide high assurance constructs for geofencing and image use - if an organization has good key management, it can provide high assurance that only certain machines/locations/users that have access to a key can use images.
The goal of the project was to provide encryption capabilities to container images, ensuring that we stick to the cloud native philosophy.

Traditionally, when encryption comes to mind, there is an association of a decrease in efficiency and observerability. However, in our design and development, we prioritize retaining the ideas that everyone likes about container images: like layering and deduplication. In addition, we ensure that we will be able to work with other tooling in the container security ecosystem like vulnerability analyzers and image signing. All in a secure way!
